docs/src/content/docs/setup/quick-start.mdx, before:

---
title: Quick Start
description: Get your first agentic workflow running in minutes. Install the extension, add a sample workflow, set up secrets, and run your first AI-powered automation.
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

import Video from '../../../components/Video.astro';

## Adding an Automated Daily Status Workflow to Your Repo

**⏱️ Estimated time: 10 minutes**

In this guide you will add an existing, pre-baked workflow to an existing GitHub repository where you are a maintainer - the automated [**Daily Repo Status Report**](https://github.com/githubnext/agentics/blob/main/workflows/daily-repo-status.md?plain=1), running in GitHub Actions.

<Video
  src="/gh-aw/videos/install-and-add-workflow-in-cli.mp4"
  caption="Install the extension, add a workflow, and trigger a run from the CLI"
  aspectRatio="16:9"
  thumbnail="/gh-aw/videos/install-and-add-workflow-in-cli.png"
/>

The aim here is to become familiar with **automated AI**: to install something that will run **automatically**, **recurringly**, in the context of your repository.

## Prerequisites

Before installing, ensure you have:

- **AI Account** - [GitHub Copilot](https://github.com/features/copilot), [Anthropic Claude](https://www.anthropic.com/) or [OpenAI Codex](https://openai.com/api/)
- **GitHub Repository** - A repository where you have write access
- **GitHub Actions** enabled - Check in [Settings → Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/enabling-features-for-your-repository/managing-github-actions-settings-for-a-repository)
- **GitHub CLI** (`gh`) v2.0.0+ - [Install here](https://cli.github.com). Check version: `gh --version`
- **Operating System**: Linux, macOS, or Windows with WSL

### Step 1 - Install the extension

Install the GitHub Agentic Workflows extension:

```text wrap
gh extension install github/gh-aw
```

If you are encountering authentication issues, use this script instead:

```text wrap
curl -sL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/github/gh-aw/main/install-gh-aw.sh | bash
```

### Step 2 - Add the sample workflow and trigger a run

From your repository root run:

```text wrap
gh aw add-wizard githubnext/agentics/daily-repo-status
```

This will take you through an interactive process to:

1. **Check prerequisites** - Verify repository permissions.
2. **Select an AI Engine** - Choose between Copilot, Claude, or Codex.
3. **Set up the required secret** - [`COPILOT_GITHUB_TOKEN`](/gh-aw/reference/tokens/#copilot_github_token), [`ANTHROPIC_API_KEY`](/gh-aw/reference/tokens/#anthropic_api_key) or [`OPENAI_API_KEY`](/gh-aw/reference/tokens/#openai_api_key).
4. **Add the workflow** - Adds the workflow and lock file to `.github/workflows/`.
5. **Optionally trigger an initial run** - Starts the workflow immediately.

> [!TIP]
> **Having trouble?** Check your [repository secrets](/gh-aw/reference/tokens/), see the [FAQ](/gh-aw/reference/faq/) and [Common Issues](/gh-aw/troubleshooting/common-issues/).

## Step 3 - Wait for the workflow to complete

An automated workflow run can take 2-3 minutes.

Once your initial run is complete, a new issue will be created in your repository with a "Daily Repo Report". The report will be automatically generated and will analyze:

- Recent repository activity (issues, PRs, discussions, releases, code changes)
- Progress tracking, goal reminders and highlights
- Project status and recommendations
- Actionable next steps for maintainers

The report will look something like this:

import { Image } from 'astro:assets';
import dailyRepoReportResult from '../../../assets/daily-repo-report-result.png';

<Image src={dailyRepoReportResult} alt="Example of a Daily Repo Status Report issue created by the workflow" />

### Step 4 - Customize your workflow (optional)

With GitHub Agentic Workflows, you are in control! Your repository automation is fully customizable. You should shape your repo automation to match your priorities and your needs.

To customize it now:

1. Open the workflow markdown file located at `.github/workflows/daily-repo-status.md` in your repository.

2. Edit the section "What to include" to list things you are having trouble with regularly in your repository: your issue blacklog, your CI setup, your testing, the performance of your software, your roadmap. Any or all of these, or anything else you want to improve. You can also customize the style and process sections to guide the coding agent's behavior.

3. Regenerate the workflow YAML by running:

   ```text
   gh aw compile
   ```

4. Commit and push to your repository.

5. Optionally trigger another run by running:

   ```text
   gh aw run daily-repo-status
   ```

After waiting for the workflow to complete, check the new issue created with your updated report!

## What's next?

There are hundreds of other ways to use GitHub Agentic Workflows! Explore some of these in [Peli's Agent Factory](https://github.github.com/gh-aw/blog/2026-01-12-welcome-to-pelis-agent-factory/).

Continue learning with these resources:

- [Creating Agentic Workflows](/gh-aw/setup/creating-workflows/)
- [How Agentic Workflows Work](/gh-aw/introduction/how-they-work/)
- [Frequently Asked Questions](/gh-aw/reference/faq/)

Commit message:

Update quick-start guide for authentication instructions (#15455)
improved quickstart guide for authentication instructions:
- indented the auth topic as Tip
- added hint to login interactively if non-bash e.g. on windows etc

docs/src/content/docs/setup/quick-start.mdx, after:

---
title: Quick Start
description: Get your first agentic workflow running in minutes. Install the extension, add a sample workflow, set up secrets, and run your first AI-powered automation.
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

import Video from '../../../components/Video.astro';

## Adding an Automated Daily Status Workflow to Your Repo

**⏱️ Estimated time: 10 minutes**

In this guide you will add an existing, pre-baked workflow to an existing GitHub repository where you are a maintainer - the automated [**Daily Repo Status Report**](https://github.com/githubnext/agentics/blob/main/workflows/daily-repo-status.md?plain=1), running in GitHub Actions.

<Video
  src="/gh-aw/videos/install-and-add-workflow-in-cli.mp4"
  caption="Install the extension, add a workflow, and trigger a run from the CLI"
  aspectRatio="16:9"
  thumbnail="/gh-aw/videos/install-and-add-workflow-in-cli.png"
/>

The aim here is to become familiar with **automated AI**: to install something that will run **automatically**, **recurringly**, in the context of your repository.

## Prerequisites

Before installing, ensure you have:

- **AI Account** - [GitHub Copilot](https://github.com/features/copilot), [Anthropic Claude](https://www.anthropic.com/) or [OpenAI Codex](https://openai.com/api/)
- **GitHub Repository** - A repository where you have write access
- **GitHub Actions** enabled - Check in [Settings → Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/enabling-features-for-your-repository/managing-github-actions-settings-for-a-repository)
- **GitHub CLI** (`gh`) v2.0.0+ - [Install here](https://cli.github.com). Check version: `gh --version`
- **Operating System**: Linux, macOS, or Windows with WSL

### Step 1 - Install the extension

Install the GitHub Agentic Workflows extension:

```text wrap
gh extension install github/gh-aw
```

> [!TIP]
> If you are encountering authentication issues, use this script instead:
>
> ```text wrap
> curl -sL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/github/gh-aw/main/install-gh-aw.sh | bash
> ```
>
> or login interactively:
> ```text wrap
> gh auth login
> ```


### Step 2 - Add the sample workflow and trigger a run

From your repository root run:

```text wrap
gh aw add-wizard githubnext/agentics/daily-repo-status
```

This will take you through an interactive process to:

1. **Check prerequisites** - Verify repository permissions.
2. **Select an AI Engine** - Choose between Copilot, Claude, or Codex.
3. **Set up the required secret** - [`COPILOT_GITHUB_TOKEN`](/gh-aw/reference/tokens/#copilot_github_token), [`ANTHROPIC_API_KEY`](/gh-aw/reference/tokens/#anthropic_api_key) or [`OPENAI_API_KEY`](/gh-aw/reference/tokens/#openai_api_key).
4. **Add the workflow** - Adds the workflow and lock file to `.github/workflows/`.
5. **Optionally trigger an initial run** - Starts the workflow immediately.

> [!TIP]
> **Having trouble?** Check your [repository secrets](/gh-aw/reference/tokens/), see the [FAQ](/gh-aw/reference/faq/) and [Common Issues](/gh-aw/troubleshooting/common-issues/).

## Step 3 - Wait for the workflow to complete

An automated workflow run can take 2-3 minutes.

Once your initial run is complete, a new issue will be created in your repository with a "Daily Repo Report". The report will be automatically generated and will analyze:

- Recent repository activity (issues, PRs, discussions, releases, code changes)
- Progress tracking, goal reminders and highlights
- Project status and recommendations
- Actionable next steps for maintainers

The report will look something like this:

import { Image } from 'astro:assets';
import dailyRepoReportResult from '../../../assets/daily-repo-report-result.png';

<Image src={dailyRepoReportResult} alt="Example of a Daily Repo Status Report issue created by the workflow" />

### Step 4 - Customize your workflow (optional)

With GitHub Agentic Workflows, you are in control! Your repository automation is fully customizable. You should shape your repo automation to match your priorities and your needs.

To customize it now:

1. Open the workflow markdown file located at `.github/workflows/daily-repo-status.md` in your repository.

2. Edit the section "What to include" to list things you are having trouble with regularly in your repository: your issue blacklog, your CI setup, your testing, the performance of your software, your roadmap. Any or all of these, or anything else you want to improve. You can also customize the style and process sections to guide the coding agent's behavior.

3. Regenerate the workflow YAML by running:

   ```text
   gh aw compile
   ```

4. Commit and push to your repository.

5. Optionally trigger another run by running:

   ```text
   gh aw run daily-repo-status
   ```

After waiting for the workflow to complete, check the new issue created with your updated report!

## What's next?

There are hundreds of other ways to use GitHub Agentic Workflows! Explore some of these in [Peli's Agent Factory](https://github.github.com/gh-aw/blog/2026-01-12-welcome-to-pelis-agent-factory/).

Continue learning with these resources:

- [Creating Agentic Workflows](/gh-aw/setup/creating-workflows/)
- [How Agentic Workflows Work](/gh-aw/introduction/how-they-work/)
- [Frequently Asked Questions](/gh-aw/reference/faq/)
